---
layout: post
title: Rocksdb read notes
---

Rocksdb read notes

- [TLB](#tlb)
	- [TLB flushing](#tlb-flushing)
	- [Huge Tlb Page](#huge-tlb-page)

# TLB
translation lookaside buffer. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translation_lookaside_buffer
A translation lookaside buffer (TLB) is a memory cache that is used to reduce the time taken to access a user memory location.It is a part of the chip's memory-management unit (MMU). The TLB stores the recent translations of virtual memory to physical memory and can be called an address-translation cache. A TLB may reside between the CPU and the CPU cache, between CPU cache and the main memory or between the different levels of the multi-level cache. The majority of desktop, laptop, and server processors include one or more TLBs in the memory-management hardware, and it is nearly always present in any processor that utilizes paged or segmented virtual memory.

The TLB is sometimes implemented as content-addressable memory (CAM). The CAM search key is the virtual address, and the search result is a physical address. If the requested address is present in the TLB, the CAM search yields a match quickly and the retrieved physical address can be used to access memory. This is called a TLB hit. If the requested address is not in the TLB, it is a miss, and the translation proceeds by looking up the page table in a process called a page walk. The page walk is time-consuming when compared to the processor speed, as it involves reading the contents of multiple memory locations and using them to compute the physical address. After the physical address is determined by the page walk, the virtual address to physical address mapping is entered into the TLB. The PowerPC 604, for example, has a two-way set-associative TLB for data loads and stores.[2] Some processors have different instruction and data address TLBs.

## TLB flushing
https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/x86/tlb.html
TLB needs flushing when switching process. Two flushing options:
- flush entire TLB. less instruction, time cost to refill TLB.
- flush invalide TLB only. More instruction number is required, need to store process indentity in TLB

## Huge Tlb Page
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/vm/hugetlbpage.txt
Users can use the huge page support in Linux kernel by either using the mmap
system call or standard SYSV shared memory system calls (shmget, shmat).

sysctl -w vm.nr_hugepages=20

/proc/sys/vm/nr_hugepages indicates the current number of "persistent" huge
pages in the kernel's huge page pool.  "Persistent" huge pages will be
returned to the huge page pool when freed by a task.  A user with root
privileges can dynamically allocate more or free some persistent huge pages
by increasing or decreasing the value of 'nr_hugepages'

Once a number of huge pages have been pre-allocated to the kernel huge page
pool, a user with appropriate privilege can use either the mmap system call
or shared memory system calls to use the huge pages.  See the discussion of
Using Huge Pages, below.

If the user applications are going to request huge pages using mmap system
call, then it is required that system administrator mount a file system of
type hugetlbfs

Also, it is important to note that no such mount command is required if
applications are going to use only shmat/shmget system calls or mmap with
MAP_HUGETLB.  For an example of how to use mmap with MAP_HUGETLB see map_hugetlb
below.